This is a really exciting video.
I mean, all the videos in this course are exciting, but this one is particularly nice because you are
going to learn how to print out statements in python using some nicer formatting than what the default
printing formatting is.
This will also be a gentle introduction to something called latex and latex coding.
If you haven't heard of latex before then basically it's a way to use computers to get nice looking
mathematical equations to print out the way that you would write them out on a board with a piece
of chalk.
All right.
So now let's switch to Python and get started.
The first thing we need to do is import some special functions from what's called a module. Modules in
Python
are collections of code that are not bundled in with the default Python environment.
So I'm going to type from and then IPython dot display import display now with lowercase and math
with uppercase.
OK so there is a module called IPython.
This will work if you were using an IPython interface such as Jupyter.
And from this module and in particular the display part of this module we are going to import to particular
functions.
One is called display and one is called math.
Now this syntax here might look a little bit strange but you will get used to this as you go throughout
the course you're going to learn about importing from numpy, importing from scipy, and so on.
So for now you can just write this.
And now what I'm going to do is use the function that I just imported here called display so I write
display with parentheses and inside the parentheses I'm going to write a string.
I'm going to say four plus three equals seven and then I'm going to evaluate all the code in this cell
by pressing control enter and you can see that in this case display actually just wrote out literally
exactly what I put into the function.
So what I wrote in between the parentheses including these single quotes here.
So far this isn't really great.
And you might be a little bit disappointed but don't worry it's going to get much better.
OK.
For one thing I'm going to show you that inside this display function you can use a mix of inputs.
So I wrote equals seven here because I'm really smart and I know that four plus three equals seven.
But let's say I was not so smart or maybe I was really smart in other areas but not so good with arithmetic.
And that's why I'm using Python. So I can say four plus three equals.
And now I don't know what the answer is but I trust that Python knows what the answer is.
I'm going to write four plus three like this.
Now what I hope is going to happen is that python will evaluate four plus three make that a seven and
write out a line that looks just like this four plus three equals seven.
But when I run this cell of code unfortunately I get an error and the error is that this is invalid
syntax and you can see the little carat symbol here showing me that the error starts basically right
here at the four.
So the issue here is that this is a string. These are strings and this is a number.
So I need to convert this number into strings in order to display this.
So I'm going to write str. This is another function and str is going to convert the number inside the
parentheses into a string, which is something like this.
OK.
So now let's try this again.
Whoops.
And we still get an error.
Now this is actually the same error.
It says invalid syntax.
So here is one of these cases where the error message is not necessarily so informative. But lucky for
you I know exactly what's wrong with this line of code and what's wrong with this line of code is we
need to tell Python to concatenate this string with this string and the way that that's done is by using
the plus sign.
And now let's try it again.
So I press control enter and then I got four plus three equals and now I didn't actually write out the
seven that you see here.
This seven comes from this seven, this seven down here comes from saying plus which means add to this
string this string which is the result of four plus three.
Now I've mentioned in a previous video the concept of overloading, this term overloading, and as a quick
reminder, overloading in code means that a particular operation or character is used in multiple ways
depending on the context. So here I'm using a plus sign to indicate addition.
So four plus three and here I'm using a plus sign to indicate concatenation.
In other words putting this string at the end of this string.
Now that may seem a little bit confusing but this is something that will quickly become familiar to
you.
OK.
Now I promised you that I'm going to help you make equations that look really nice.
So let's start by doing that so I'm going to say display instead of just writing four plus three equals
seven.
I'm going to use this math function and I'm going to embed the math function into the display function.
So that's going to look like this: display and then math and then with another set of parentheses so
we take this string here four plus three equals seven and embedded into or as the input into the math
function --that's math with a capital M -- and then this math function is the input into the display function.
And now let's see what that looks like.
OK.
So this is starting to look a little bit nicer.
There is no more single quotes here and the numbers look a little bit different from how they look up
here.
OK.
So things are getting a little bit better.
What I want to show you now is integrating the variables that you learned about in a previous video
with this nicer formatting that you're learning about here.
So I'm going to say x equals four and Y equals... how about five.
Now what I would like to do is print out something that looks like this except it's going to say X plus
Y equals whatever X plus Y equals in this case is going to be nine.
But I don't actually want to write out the letter X. I want to write out the number x that this variable
refers to.
So let's start by writing display and then math.
And now let's just see what happens when I write X plus Y equals.
Well it's just gonna be x plus y.
Okay.
So here we already get an error and the error says that keyword can't be an expression.
So again this is not a super helpful error message but I've already told you that we need to be using
strings inside the display and the math function.
So that can be a little bit helpful already.
So let's see what would happen if I put all of this inside the string function.
So something like this.
OK.
So now we still get an error, and you know what?
Maybe this is a little bit complicated so maybe we should try starting a little bit simpler and then
make things more complicated as we go along.
So I'm just going to put String x inside the math function which is inside the display function.
And now we get the number four.
So that's pretty neat.
X got evaluated to four and then that was converted into a string and then that went into the math and
display functions.
And by the way just in case you think I don't know what I'm doing here, I actually do know what I'm doing.
I'm trying to illustrate to you one way of learning how to code, which is basically just by testing out
a lot of different things until you get it right.
OK.
So that got me X and now I want to say plus y.
So I'm going to say plus string y and then control enter and ha.
This gives me the number forty five but is this really the number forty five.
Actually this is the string four and then concatenated with the string five.
So this is the number four five without a space in between the two.
So what we need to do here is mix up some strings.
I'm going to write plus and then another plus sign here.
So these are the plus signs for concatenating strings.
This is a plus sign inside the single quote.
So this is making the string of a plus sign.
All right.
Now we are getting somewhere.
In fact I believe that you can figure out the rest of this on your own.
So I encourage you to pause the video and figure out how to make this piece of code say four plus five
equals nine.
So I hope you paused the video and figured out how to solve this.
We can write another plus sign for string concatenation equals another plus sign.
And now we say String x plus y.
All right.
So this gives us four plus five equals nine. At this point,
if you are looking at this line of code and thinking that it looks really long and really complicated
and there must be a better way to do this, then you are absolutely right!
There actually is a better way to do this and I'm going to show that to you now.
So I'm just going to copy this and paste it down here again.
Now I'm going to write a little bit of code and it's going to look weird at first but I'm going to explain
exactly what I'm doing as soon as I finish writing this code.
So I'm going to say % G plus percent G equals percent G.
So this is a rather strange looking line of code.
So what's going to happen here is I'm going to substitute this % G here here and here for three different
variables.
And the way that that gets done is another percent sign and then parentheses here, and then I say X comma
Y comma x plus y.
Now notice that I don't need to explicitly write down strings, that's handled here.
And what Python is going to do is print out this %G and it's going to look over here after the end
of this single quote.
Here with this percent here it's gonna look for the first number or variable and substitute here with
what I have here.
And then so on for the second goes for the second and the third goes with the third object here.
So again we get the same output but the code is more compact and it's a little bit easier to read as
soon as you get used to this funky letters with a percent G.
So that is a brief introduction to using display and math in the IPython or Jupyter environment to
print out equations.
If this still seems a little bit confusing then don't worry you're going to get a lot more practice
throughout this course.
What I want to do now is give you a quick introduction to latex coding and I'm going to motivate this
by writing display math and then let's say I want a fraction.
So let's say I want to print out four divided by five equals point eight.
Now based on what I already taught you up here you can write this out like this four divided by five
equals point eight.
And this is kind of OK.
However if you're going to write out the fraction four divided by five four over five with a pencil
on a piece of paper you're not going to write it like this.
You're going to put the four on top and then a horizontal line and then the five on the bottom.
So how can we do that?
Well just using these strings like this,
that's not possible.
Instead, we are going to use latex coding to create something that looks just like what a fraction should
look like.
So let's say display math.
So far this part is the same, but now I'm going to type backslash backslash frac and then with curly
brackets four and then more curly brackets 5.
So again it's two back slashes.
This is not the same slash operator as the division.
This is sometimes called the Escape character.
You need backslash backslash frac is short for a fraction of course.
And then we need two sets of curly brackets.
These are not parentheses; these are the funny looking curly brackets.
So the first curly bracket corresponds to the numerator and the second corresponds to the denominator.
Okay.
So you can see now this looks like the kind of fraction you would expect to see and then I'll write equals
point eight.
So this right here this is called latex coding and it gives this really beautiful math formatting.
There is a lot that you can do with latex coding in combination with the display and math functions
For right now,
I want to show you one more latex code and then I think that was enough for this video.
We'll go to some exercises and you will learn more about displaying and latex coding in later videos.
OK.
So let's say we have X equals three point four and Y equals... I don't know 17... today feels like a 17.
Now what I want to do is print out X times Y.
In other words, three point four times seventeen and then see the result of that answer.
Now I don't actually know what three point four times 17 is.
So I'm not going to be able to write out the answer explicitly just like this.
Instead I'm going to have to ask Python to compute it for me.
That said I can guess it's going to be somewhere around 60 maybe a little bit less than 60 because this
is a little bit more than three and this is a little bit less than 20.
So three times 20 is 60.
So I guess this answer is going to be somewhere in the ballpark of 60.
Okay so display math.
I'm going to use this approach to formatting mixed with latex coding that I introduce you to here.
So let's say percent G.
And that's gonna be for the X.
And now I want a times. We could draw a  times with an X like this but to make it look nicer,
I'm going to use latex coding and I'm gonna say slash slash times.
Percent G equals percent G.
So we need 3 percent Gs as substitutes as placeholders for three numbers.
And those are X and then Y and then X times Y.
Now I press control enter and we see this looks really nice.
Three point four times seventeen equals fifty seven point eight.
So I was actually pretty close.
I guessed it was gonna be somewhere around 60.
So you can see this is the multiplication sign that's different from the letter X.
If I would put an X in here this looks like a italicized capital X. It doesn't look like the multiplication
sign. So here are the two exercises for this video.
Now I have to warn you these exercises are a little bit more challenging compared to the exercises you've
seen in the previous few videos but I think it's worth the effort.
And when you solve these exercises successfully I think you're going to have a really great warm fuzzy
feeling of satisfaction.
So here I'm listing two equations with three variables each.
And what you want to do is implement these equations in Python and make sure they print out with nice
formatting. And you want to do this twice for each equation -- once just print them out looking like this.
Don't worry about the colors.
And then a second time replacing the variables with the actual numbers so you can see what it's going
to look like here when you successfully complete this challenge, this exercise. Your python output will
look like this.
We'll say three X times four plus Y equals 42.
That's just writing out what I've done here except for the colors.
And here is the same equation except I'm replacing all the variables with the actual numbers.
Okay.
And then the same thing for number two; here I'm just printing out exactly what you see here. And here
I'm replacing the variables with the corresponding numbers that you see here.
All right.
So pause the video.
Take a deep breath.
Work your way through this code challenge and when you figure it out then you can come back to the video
and now I'm going to switch to Python and you can watch me solve it.
The first thing I'm going to do is create these variables.
So we had X equals seven Y equals minus two and z equals five so far.
Pretty easy.
So now let's work through the first problem. What I'm going to do actually is first create a variable
that is the outcome of that equation.
So that equation was three times x times and then in parentheses four plus y.
Now I can just write it out like this.
That confirms that the answer is 42.
That's good because that's what was in the slide but I'm going to set this equal to a variable and I'll
call it a n s, for answer, short for answer.
So I have a variable that corresponds to the answer.
Now remember the first output we want to create is the display just of the function itself.
So this is going to be three X times four plus Y equals.
And I know the answer is 42.
However I'm going write percent G and then here I'm going to say percent ans, now previously I use parentheses
here.
The parentheses are necessary after this percent sign
If you have multiple variables to print out, in this case we have only one variable to print out.
So the parentheses is not necessary.
So that looks pretty nice.
And now I need to repeat this,
replacing the letters X and Y with the variables for X and Y.
I'm going to start by copying and pasting this in here and now I can say % G for the X and then percent
G for the Y.
And then we have %g here for the answer.
So now I need to say that the first %G gets replaced with X. The second %G gets replaced
with Y.
And then we have our answer.
The outcome of the equation.
Now this is not exactly accurate because it looks like this says thirty seven times four plus minus
two.
But in fact it's three times seven because it was three times x.
So I'm going to include a slash slash times in here and now this looks better.
Now maybe you think that this still looks a little bit awkward to say four plus negative two.
If you don't like that then you can just delete the plus sign here and you get four minus two.
All right.
Very good.
So that was the first equation.
I'm going to make a new cell for the second equation, just to keep things a little bit separate. Otherwise,
I'm going to follow basically the same formatting that I had up here.
So first I'm going to actually create the answer.
So the answer was -- notice I'm replacing the value of ans, so I'm reassigning ans to be whatever is the
new equation -- that's going to overwrite this value of ans.
So from the slides that was minus Y minus and then we had the fraction and that was x plus three divided
by Z.
Okay.
And now I would like to confirm that it is zero, which is the answer given in the slides.
So let's say display and then math in the equation.
So I'm going to actually copy and paste that item here in single quotes.
Now that kind of works except I don't really like this formatting. I would like this to be a nice fraction
the way that four fifths was a nice fraction up here.
So therefore I'm going to use slash slash frac.
And then in curly brackets the numerator and then the second curly brackets corresponds to the denominator.
And this looks really nice.
Now I'm going to say equals percent G and then percent a..
Great.
This looks really professional, very clean.
Now I want to do this once more.
But replacing X Y and Z with the numbers that these variables are set to.
So I'm going to start by copying and pasting this line and then same trick that I showed you before.
So % G instead of the Y percent G instead of the X Percent G instead of the Z.
And then we have a percent G here.
Now this is where it's gonna get a little bit confusing because you might initially think of saying
X Y Z but the thing is, Python is going to go by order,
so if I write X here as the first term python will replace this place holder here with X..
But in fact this first place holder here was y so I need to say y and then the second one was X. So
this corresponds to X and then the third one was Z.
So that's correct.
And then the answer, so
that's also correct.
All right.
So we have a lot of minus signs floating around in here. It gets a little bit confusing but we can work
our way through this.
So this is minus minus two.
So this ends up being plus two.
And then we have minus seven plus three is ten divided by five is two.
So we get plus two because the minus signs cancel out minus two equals zero.
So that works. Very good job on this video.
If you are new to Python then I hope you found this video a little bit challenging but also a little
bit exciting.
You learned how to make equations look really nice using a combination of a particular IPython module
and a little bit of latex coding and you are already starting to see, even this early in the course,
how Python can be a really powerful tool for learning mathematics and also for visualizing the formulas
that you are implementing.